Okay, let's see what we've got. Well number one has been done for you. Number two,
the simple way to write that is to say 7 less than or
equal to p less than 12. The next one we would write as 5 less than x less than seven. The next one, well if x, let me see, if x is less than 4 then it's
automatically less than 6. So the second conjunct
here is superfluous, we could just write that as x less than 4. What about the next one? Well y squared less than 9 means,
let me see, negative 3 is less than y is less than 3. That's what the second conjunct means. But if y satisfies this condition
then certainly y is less than 4, so the first conjunct is superfluous. And the only one that
counts is the second one. So we could simply write that
as y squared less than 9. Okay that was just our
thinking on the way. What about this one? Well x is greater than or
equal to 0 and it's less or equal to 0, there's only one possibility and
that's x equal 0. Well for number three, in order to show that
the conjunction is true, what you would do is
show that all of phi 1, phi 2, etc., up to phi n are true. And for number four, to show that
a conjunction is false, is you show that 1 of phi 1, phi 2, phi n is false. So you have to find one of these,
at least one of these, which is false. And then it follows that
the conjunction is false. Okay, well that's that one. Okay well with part a,if pi is bigger then
10, then it's automatically bigger than 3. So in terms of the disjunct,
pi bigger than 3 dominates. That says more, if we draw a picture we've got 0 we’ve got 3 we've got 10. And the first one says that x
is to the right of this point. And the second disjunct is at x
is to the right of that point. And the disjunction will be true,
if at least one of them's true. And at least one of them will be true,
if we start at 3. First of all,
only the first disjunct is correct, and then when we get beyond this point,
both disjuncts are correct. So it's the first one that works. This is that's either x is less than 0 or
x is greater than 0. So the simplest way to write that
is to say that x is not equal to 0. So the less 0, which is negative, or
it's bigger than 0, it's positive. This says that x equals 0 or x is greater
than 0 the standard abbreviation for that is x greater than or equal to 0. And once you've got x greater than or
equal to 0, that's going to dominate over the first
disjunct in terms of a disjunction. So you're going to have x greater than or
equal to 0. That makes a more general
claim of the two. And for this one, let me make a note
that x squared greater than 9, this part means that either
x is greater than 3 or x is less than negative 3. Well, one of these two disjuncts
is the one that's here. So, this one is superfluous. So, that's the one that counts. So, x squared greater than 9,
is a simple way of saying it. So again, as with the previous case,
as with numbers one and two, as I was going through them I actually
articulated what these things are. These were really just to prompt
you to thinking about how you will express them in English. Okay, well that's that one. Well in number seven,
just show that if disjunction is true, you have to show that one of them is true,
at least one of them. And for number 8 to show that it's false. You have to show that all of phi 1, phi 2, etc., to phi n are false. Okay, well that's number seven and
eight taken care of. Turning to number nine now. To say that it's not the case
that pi is greater than 3.2 is to say that pi is less than or
equal to 3.2. When you negate a strict greater
than you get less than or equal to. To say that it's not
the case that x is negative is to say that x is greater than or
equal to 0. These are real numbers,
from the context of the expression we can assume that these
are talking about real numbers. And for real number,
every real number has a square which is strictly positive with one exception and
that exception is 0. So the only real number for which it's not the case that x squared
is strictly positive is x equal 0. The standard abbreviation for
not x equals 1 is x not equal to 1. And when you negate a negation it takes
you back to the original statement. And again as I went through them I
essentially answered number ten. We're returning to question 11 now,
here are the answers that I get. Dollar and Yuan both strong. Okay, Dollar strong and Yuan strong. I think that one's fairly straightforward. What about this one? Well, with this word, despite, and but, and in our mind, those are just
nuanced forms of conjunction. They both mean and, so,
we put the Yuan weak and there's a trade agreement,
and the Dollar strong. So the despite and the but, they sort of
get at whether these things are contrary to our expectations or
consistent with our expectations. But they still say that all three
of these things hold together. Okay, this one I think is
fairly straightforward. They can't both be
strong at the same time. So it's not the case. The Dollar strong and the Yuan strong. For part d, well,
if that doesn't prevent that, it means that happens and
both of those fail. So the trade agreement signed but
the Dollar falls, and the Yuan falls. The trade agreement
holding doesn't prevent the fall in the Dollar and the Yuan. That means, the Dollar and
the Yuan do fall, okay. And then, for the last one,
US-China trade agreement fails but both currencies remain strong. Again the but I think is,
and it's conjunction so we've got the trade agreement fairly, currencies both remain strong,
the Dollar strong and the Yuan strong. Okay, those are my answers I
would hope you get more or less the same I mean you might end up
writing things slightly differently. But even though we had to think a little
bit about what these words mean, to my mind, there's no real dispute as
to whether these are correct or not. Okay, and how did you do on that one?