Well for assignment 6 I'm just going to do
the last 3 questions, number 7, 8 and 9. I think you should be able to do the first
6 on your own and check it on your own or with other students.
So in number 7 we have to negate statements and put them in positive form.
Part A was for all x in N, there was a y in N X plus Y equals 1.
The negation for that is, and I think you'll get the same answer as I do, if you
get it right. There is an X and N, such that for all Y
and N, X plus Y is not equal to 1. You, you could have written that last part
as not X plus Y equals one if you like, that's equally correct, I just choose this
way of writing it. Okay, and in this one, for "X" that's
greater than zero, there's a "Y" that's less than zero, "x" plus "y" equals zero,
the negation of that, in positive form, is an "X" greater than zero and it's greater
than zero, okay. For all "Y" less than zero, these don't
change around. They stay the same way, because these
simply tell us what Xs and Ys we're looking at.
And, we get X plus Y not equal to 0 here. Okay, for part C, there is an X, greater,
there is an X, so epsilon greater than 0, negative epsilon less than X, less than
epsilon. And when you negate that you get for all x
epsilon greater than 0. But in this case you going to have to sort
of split this into 2. One of 2 effects is not between negative
epsilon and plus epsilon then either x is less than or equal to negative epsilon or
x is greater or equal to epsilon I didn't put parenthesis around either of
these,[UNKNOWN] I could have done if I wanted to be ultra clear but this takes
precedents over the logical operations, arithmetic's expressions are, inequalities
and so forth. Take precedents over logical connectors.
Because these are connectors. They connect Statements about mathematics.
And this is a statement about mathematics, and that's a statement about mathematics.
But if you wanted, you could have put parentheses around that.
And you could have put parentheses around that.
That would been, that would have been another way of doing it.
Moving onto the last part. For all x and n, for all y and n, there a
z and n . X plus Y equals z squared, we're not
talking about whether these or true or not, we're just writing them down and
negating them, so you got exists an X and N, exists a Y and N, for all Z and N, and
I've just written this again, X plus Y is not equal to Z squared, you could simply
put a negation sign in front of that expression.
Okay, well that's number seven. It';s fairly straightforward, let's move
on to number eight. Question eight is our old friend Abraham
Lincoln, and this famous statement of it, or allegedly famous statement of his, and
when it's negated[INAUDIBLE] that famous sentence.
So, let's let fxt mean you can fool person p at time t.
And then his statement is this one. You can fool all of the people some of the
time. There were some times when you could fool
everybody. You can fool some of the people all of the
time. So, there are some people that can be
fooled for all ti-, at all times, but you cannot fool all of the people all of the
time. Okay, let's just mechanically go through
and negate that. Looking at the formulas then, and then
we'll try to interpret, the answer and express the answer in terms of English.
Okay. So, negate exists, it becomes for all when
it for all, it becomes exists, FPT becomes not FPT.
Okay, conjunction becomes a disjunction. Again, I'm not putting these in
parantheses. And I'm not going to do it here because
this is a, this is a, is a whole that quantifies binding the, the very tight
binding. And then we have this junction conjunction
here and then this junction's here the, their less tightly binding.
So looking at this one, exist becomes for all, for all becomes exist we get
negation. Conjunction becomes disjunction and the
negation here just disappears. So I put a positive statement.
Okay so in terms of the formalism, this is fairly routine.
In fact, this is such a routine thing that this is essentially algorithmic.
I just went through and applied, the, the patterns, the rules that I've observed
happening. The interesting part of this, I think, and
you wont have to do it, but let's do this. Let's see how we can express this, in
English language. And, We're not going to get something
quite as, as nice as this, I don't think. Because we need to try and be, to avoid
ambiguity as much as possible. So the first part would be the best I can
think of at the moment is, let's see. At anytime, there is someone you can't
fool, and, oops or, because we've negated, or okay.
Let's have a look at this one. I can't really think of anything better
than to say the following: for every person, you can't always fool them.
Well, no. I think if you try and swap it 'round.
You run into sort of a American melanoma type problem.
So, to try and avoid that, I think I would, I would want to write it this way.
And then, the final clause. But that's easy, of course, let's just
say, you can fool all the people all the time.
Ok. I'm, I'm moderately happy with that, you
might say I have different opinions on the best way to write that.
[inaudible], But, number 2 is a bit ugly. But I was, I'm not sure we can make a
better job of that one. Okay, in any case, we've, we've, we've,
we've negated the thing. And, and this was nice and clean.
Okay, now, now, let's look, look at number 9.
Well, number 9 involves one of the most, important and most famous, some might say
infamous formulas. Of, advanced mathematics.
Of university level mathematics. It's this definition.
When students entering math-, entering university to study mathematics.
Therefore, a math major. It's this definition that, that usually
causes them the most problems during their first year.
In fact I think it's this definition that probably is responsible for more math
majors giving up uh,mathematics in their first year at university more than
anything else. It's a really tricky thing to understand
as many of you've noticed, and I've seen from discussions on the forum.
Figuring this out is, is really hard. This was hundreds of years of effort
starting with the invention of the calculus by Newton and Leibniz in the, in
the 17th century. It took a long time in several hundred
years before mathematicians were able to figure out the notion of continuity and
come up with this definition. This was late-19th century that this was
done. And it was it was a tricky thing.
Negating it is relatively straight forward, actually, because we've, we've
got rules for doing them. And so, when you negate it, what you get
is that the for all becomes exists and the, it's still a greater than, we're
still talking about positive numbers, epsilon.
The exists becomes a for all, the for all becomes an exists and, then there's a
bunch of stuff that's in the bracket here. This is a conditional, an implication, and
so, when you negate it, you get the antecedent conjoined with the negation of
the consequent. So, here's the antecedent.
Again, I haven't put parentheses around that because this is a, a mathematical
statement, and That, that's take precedence over the, over the conjuncts
not just junction is I've just connected there operators that bring things
together. So that's a piece on its own.
That guy, conjoined with the negation of this guy.
Okay, the negation of it will be less than F1.
If it's originally F1. Okay, so, so that's the negation and
that's relatively mechanical to do that, as long as you sort of pay attention to
Preserving things that need to be preserved.
Changing for alls to exist and negating a conditional.
The interesting question is, what on earth does this mean?
You know you can read it through as I just did for all epsilon, greater than 0, this
is delta greater than 0, such that for all x, yada, yada, yada.
What does it, what does it mean? Well, this is capturing in sym-, in, in,
in a symbolic language. In an aglebraic form-, formalism.
It's capturing something geometric. So, let's see what it's capturing.
Let's look at the original definition of continuity.
It's about functions. So let's look at a function this way.
I'll draw a wavy line vertically, this is a real line, and then I'm going to draw
the real line vertically here. So this is the real line, instead of
writing horizontally as we usually do, I'm going to write it horizontally.
And the function, f, is going to take Numbers here, to numbers here.
Okay, so somewhere here we've got A. F applies to that.
And it gives me F of A. Okay.
Now we're trying to capture the notion of continuity at a.
That means when we go slightly to the left or right of a, left or right is up and
down the way I represent it, then the numbers don't sort of have a
discontinuity. And the way to caption that it turns out
and chances are very, very high that you're not going to follow this the first
time, it's going to take you weeks if you need to, to master this.
But here's what this formula says, it says the epsilons are going to work on here, it
says let's take an epsilon here and let's look at F of a plus epsilon and f of a
minus epsilon. So I'm going to take an epsilon interval
around f of a. And what this definition says, is that,
given an epsilon in 1 of these intervals, I can find a delta.
So here's a plus delta, and a minus delta. So starting with an epsilon, which gives
me an interval here, through any one of those, I can find a delta, which gives me
an interval here. Search that.
Now let's look at this. Any x, in this region, because this says,
that x is within delta of a. So any x in this interval, gets sent to an
image f of x, in here. So it's saying, in order to make sure that
all the values of the function Are in this interval.
I can find an interval around A, such that they're all sent into here.
So, if I want to hit the target, imagine this is hitting the target, like throwing
darts at a dart board. If I want to hit the target within a
specified accuracy of a, of f of a, I can always do it by starting out within an
interval of a. So to get within a given interval around f
of a, I can always find an interval around a that does it.
So everything from here gets sent into here.
And if you think about it long enough, you'll realize that what that means is
that the function is continuous at here, there's no, no, no jumps.
And to try and understand that, let's look at what this guy means in terms of a
diagram. I'll do the same thing again, I'll draw
the rail line. And I'll draw the real line.
And here's a, and here's f of a. Now the negation says there is some
epsilon. In, in the previous case this was
happening for all epsilons. You could find a delta.
In this case there's a fixed epsilon that we can find.
And we look at the interval around there, F of A minus Epsilon, okay, what it says,
is that there is an Epsilon, such that, no matter what you take here, no matter which
one you take here, here we found one of these guys, we said Take any interval
here, we could find and interval here. Here we're saying the reason interval here
for some epsilon such as no matter what delta we take here, no matter how small
you make this delta, no matter how close you get here, that was a point that gets
sent to that, you can always find a point in here, that gets sent outside of there.
Maybe sent that way, maybe sent that way. So the sum epsilon here, that no matter
what you do in here, no matter how close you are to a, something gets sent out
here. In other words, there are points really,
really, really close to a that get sent outside this region.
So there's no way that you can, you can get all points in here.
A gets sent to that, but arbitrarily close to a There are points that get sent away.
So there's discontinuity, because only a gets sent close to a.
When you get, well some other points maybe, but no matter how close you get to
a, you'll find points that are sent further away.
So that's a discontinuity. Thing's jump, there's a sort of jump form
there from there to thing here or here. Now I, the chances are high, if it's the
first time you've seen this, that explanation is going to be hard to follow.
This is really difficult to understand. This is extremely, extremely hard.
And, and the goal of this course actually isn't for you to understand this, the goal
of this course is to give you the machinery so that you're now able to take
a whole semester course on real analysis that you're enduring, which you should be
able to understand that. So, I wouldn't worry too much if you can't
understand this. The point is if you could understand the
first part and understand how to deal with the formalism you now have the machinery
you need to understand this is very deep conceptual definition from within
mathematics. Okay, and so to have reached such stage in
4 weeks I think is pretty, is pretty remarkable.
The hard part is to come. And for those of you that want to go on
and study more mathematics sooner or later and hopefully sooner you're going to need
to master this definition and what it means.
Okey dokey? Well as far as we're concerned we're done
with this one.